docs: capture our policy for the options `shared` and `fPIC` (#12281)
conan-io/conan-center-index: docs/packaging_policy.md

## Options

Recipes can list any number of options with any meaning, and defaults are up to the recipe itself. The CI cannot enforce anything
in this direction. However, there are a couple of options that have a special meaning for the CI.

### Predeinfed Options and Known Defaults

ConanCenter supports many combinations, these are outline in the [supported configurations](supported_platforms_and_configurations.md) document for each platform. 

* `shared` (with values `True` or `False`). The CI inspects the recipe looking for this option. The **default should be `shared=False`** and will
   generate all the configurations with values `shared=True` and `shared=False`.

>    > **Note**: The CI applies `shared=True` only to the package being built, while every other requirement will.

Reviewer: 🤔  I think removed words are important here.

Author: ```suggestion
   > **Note**: The CI applies `shared=True` only to the package being built, while every other requirement will. It's important to keep this in mind when trying to consume shared packages from ConanCenter.
```

Author: I think I removed it by accident 🙊 

thanks for the good review ❤️

   > It's important to keep this in mind when trying to consume shared packages from ConanCenter
   > as their requirements were linked inside the shared library. See [FAQs](faqs.md#how-to-consume-a-graph-of-shared-libraries) for more information.

* `fPIC` (with values `True` or `False`). The **default should be `fPIC=True`** and will generate all the configurations with values `fPIC=True` and `fPIC=False`.
  This option does not make sense on all the support configurations so it should be be removed.

   ```python
   def config_options(self):
   if self.settings.os == "Windows":
      del self.options.fPIC

   def configure(self):
      if self.options.shared:

>          del self.options.fPIC

Reviewer: Add the `try`/`except` idiom here, it is required for v1-v2 compatible syntax.

Reviewer 2: Nice catch. Also, could include that is required due msvc compiler.

Author: @prince-chrismc please fix fmt recipe! lol

Author: Is it only needed for settings? The options are declared here and are not cleared AFAIK (from what I learnt reviewing I have not played with this yet)

https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/blob/4b76f5816ea8812ec5c70925a05e28f51e52c030/recipes/chipmunk2d/all/conanfile.py#L36

//cc @SpaceIm

Author: https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/pull/12034/files#diff-c89a919d270ed00a27518805fc3b5d2df6b1439c7da75901abb78b5347238095R40-R43

Ohh I just noticed this option is deleted so it might not be there

Author: ```suggestion
            try:
                del self.options.fPIC
            except Exception:
                pass
```

## Options

Recipes can list any number of options with any meaning, and defaults are up to the recipe itself. The CI cannot enforce anything
in this direction. However, there are a couple of options that have a special meaning for the CI.

### Predeinfed Options and Known Defaults

ConanCenter supports many combinations, these are outline in the [supported configurations](supported_platforms_and_configurations.md) document for each platform. 

* `shared` (with values `True` or `False`). The CI inspects the recipe looking for this option. The **default should be `shared=False`** and will
   generate all the configurations with values `shared=True` and `shared=False`.

>    > **Note**: The CI applies `shared=True` only to the package being built, while every other requirement will. It's important to keep this in mind when trying to consume shared packages from ConanCenter.

Reviewer: ⬆️  Check again

Author: I am sorry 😕 You will need to add a suggestion I am not sure I follow what it missing...

The default is bold in https://github.com/conan-io/conan-center-index/pull/12281/files#diff-14538b50bf191933a8611daa28b18ac68d53e3de39dea62d8c5f4a2f72d463b1R117

I used the same syntax for all three options

***

If it's not obvious enough my other idea was to make a table, which i'd love to add

Reviewer: Here you are repeating the same line twice: _"It's important to keep this in mind when trying to consume shared packages from ConanCenter."_ 

The important information is that only the library being built will use explicit `shared=True`, the rest of their dependencies will use their default (typically `shared=False`). It means that everything will be linked in the `.dll` that is being build, so, if you consume package from ConanCenter using `*:shared=True` you won't be consuming the code/logic of all those shared libraries, but just from the lower ones in the dependency graph (all the others were linked inside those ones). This is very important, as overriding the version of the other (or changing some options,...) won't modify the behavior at all.

Reviewer 3: that is very important.
here, there are several things you need to be aware of:
- only root package is built with `shared=True`, all its dependencies are still with `shared=False`
- you won't be able to override dependencies without re-build, as information is erased from package id by default
- also, it's important you may run into https://github.com/conan-io/conan/issues/9712.

Reviewer 3: (you also may want to add a paragraph, like if it's not the desired effect, you may need to run conan with `--build=always` or `-o *:shared=True`)

Author: ```suggestion
   > **Note**: The CI applies `shared=True` only to the package being built, while every other requirement will `shared=False`. To consume everything as a shared library you will set `--build=always` and/or `-o *:shared=True`)
```

   > It's important to keep this in mind when trying to consume shared packages from ConanCenter
   > as their requirements were linked inside the shared library. See [FAQs](faqs.md#how-to-consume-a-graph-of-shared-libraries) for more information.

* `fPIC` (with values `True` or `False`). The **default should be `fPIC=True`** and will generate all the configurations with values `fPIC=True` and `fPIC=False`.
  This option does not make sense on all the support configurations so it should be be removed.

   ```python
   def config_options(self):

>    if self.settings.os == "Windows":

Reviewer 3: something wrong with indent?

Author: ```suggestion
       if self.settings.os == "Windows":
```

      del self.options.fPIC

   def configure(self):
      if self.options.shared:
         try:
             del self.options.fPIC

>          except Exception:

Reviewer 3: that emits pycharm warnings, seems like considered a bad practice (exception is too broad)

Reviewer 4: FYI, Conan 1.53 will bring the new method `rm_safe` (also for `settings`) so it'll be possible to avoid those try-except structures. It'll look like this:

```python
   def configure(self):
      if self.options.shared:
         self.options.rm_safe("fPIC")
```

Author: That will be amazing!

Author: Noisy?

## Options

Recipes can list any number of options with any meaning, and defaults are up to the recipe itself. The CI cannot enforce anything
in this direction. However, there are a couple of options that have a special meaning for the CI.

> ### Predeinfed Options and Known Defaults

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
### Predefined Options and Known Defaults
```

ConanCenter supports many combinations, these are outline in the [supported configurations](supported_platforms_and_configurations.md) document for each platform.

> By default, `shared=False` is compiled with `fPIC=True`. If support, `header_only=False` is the default.

Reviewer 4: I'm not sure if I'm getting the meaning of this line.

Author: ```suggestion
By default recipes should use `shared=False` with `fPIC=True`. If support, `header_only=False` is the default.
```

Usage of each option should follow the rules:

* `shared` (with values `True` or `False`). The CI inspects the recipe looking for this option. The **default should be `shared=False`** and will
   generate all the configurations with values `shared=True` and `shared=False`.

   > **Note**: The CI applies `shared=True` only to the package being built, while every other requirement will. It's important to keep this in mind when trying to consume shared packages from ConanCenter.
   > It's important to keep this in mind when trying to consume shared packages from ConanCenter
   > as their requirements were linked inside the shared library. See [FAQs](faqs.md#how-to-consume-a-graph-of-shared-libraries) for more information.

* `fPIC` (with values `True` or `False`). The **default should be `fPIC=True`** and will generate all the configurations with values `fPIC=True` and `fPIC=False`.

>   This option does not make sense on all the support configurations so it should be be removed.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  This option does not make sense on all the support configurations so it should be removed.
```

By default recipes should use `shared=False` with `fPIC=True`. If support, `header_only=False` is the default.

Usage of each option should follow the rules:

* `shared` (with values `True` or `False`). The CI inspects the recipe looking for this option. The **default should be `shared=False`** and will
   generate all the configurations with values `shared=True` and `shared=False`.

   > **Note**: The CI applies `shared=True` only to the package being built, while every other requirement will `shared=False`. To consume everything as a shared library you will set `--build=always` and/or `-o *:shared=True`)
   > It's important to keep this in mind when trying to consume shared packages from ConanCenter
   > as their requirements were linked inside the shared library. See [FAQs](faqs.md#how-to-consume-a-graph-of-shared-libraries) for more information.

* `fPIC` (with values `True` or `False`). The **default should be `fPIC=True`** and will generate all the configurations with values `fPIC=True` and `fPIC=False`.
  This option does not make sense on all the support configurations so it should be removed.

   ```python

>    def config_options(self):
>        if self.settings.os == "Windows":
>       del self.options.fPIC
> 
>    def configure(self):
>       if self.options.shared:
>          try:
>              del self.options.fPIC
>          except Exception:
>              pass

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    def config_options(self):
        if self.settings.os == "Windows":
            del self.options.fPIC

    def configure(self):
        if self.options.shared:
            try:
                del self.options.fPIC
            except Exception:
                pass
```
Bad indentation

   ```

   Starting with Conan 1.53 this can be simplified to

   ```py
   def configure(self):
      if self.options.shared:
         self.options.rm_safe("fPIC")
   ```

* `header_only` (with values `True` or `False`). The **default should be `header_only=False`**. If the CI detects this option, it will generate all the
   configurations for the value `header_only=False` and add one more configuration with `header_only=True`. **Only one package**
   will be generated for `header_only=True`, so it is crucial that the package is actually a _header only_ library, with header files only (no libraries or executables inside).

   Recipes with such option should include the following in their `package_id` method

   ```python
   def package_id(self):
      if self.options.header_only:

>          self.info.clear()

Reviewer 2: It would be nice adding a note about how it affects `self.info.settings` and `self.info.options`. Settings is None and `settings.compiler` is not make affect for `check_min_cppstd`, only when installing the package. Otherwise, it would require `validate_build` with `self.settings.compiler`

Author: I think that should go into the main Conan docs since it's pretty generic.
"For more information about how this affects the `package_id` read the documentation [here]()" type of thing?

   ```

   The `skip_test` configuration is supported by [CMake](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/reference/build_helpers/cmake.html#test) and [Meson](https://docs.conan.io/en/latest/reference/build_helpers/meson.html#test).

### Recommended feature options names

> It's often needed to add options to toggle specific library features on/off. Regardless of the default, there is a strong preference for using positive naming for options. In order to avoid the fragmentation, we recommend to use the following naming conventions for such options:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
It's often needed to add options to toggle specific library features on/off. Regardless of the default, there is a strong preference for using positive naming for options. In order to avoid fragmentation, we recommend using the following naming conventions for such options:
```
